We got an SPG to show up.
Let's now take a look at a couple of diagrams and understand how we work with them in general.
OK here we go right here.
So first things first.
Whenever we want to show a SPG or essentially some set of random shapes that we want to draw onto the
screen we're going to place an SPG element.
When we created SPG elements we're going to assign it a height and a width so you can see that we did
back that back inside the markup that we just put together right here.
So when we wrote that out it essentially created a big square inside of our small document.
That was to enter pixels tall junior pixels wide.
This SPG element is kind of like a canvas of sorts an honest canvas.
We can draw different shapes.
We can very easily see the SPG element in action.
If we go back over to our index start each small file use our element inspector and then hover over
the SPG so we can very easily see the full span of the SPG now.
So again this is kind of like a canvas of sorts.
We're kind of like an area we can draw as much stuff as we want to the SPG element has a couple of interesting
properties around it.
One of the most important things we need to understand is the axes that it has or those dimensions to
the top left corner of the SFE jail.
Assuming SPG element is what we refer to as the origin we're going to be working with a lot of coordinate
pairs.
So like x y values in order to place in size different shapes and sizes SPG elements all the coordinate
pairs that we are going to work with.
Use the origin of the top left hand side the X axes then increases from left to right and the y axes
increases from top to bottom so if we were to try to show some different points on here a point right
here might be at about one hundred seventy five pixels along the x direction.
So that means we go over a hundred and seventy five pixels from left to right and then 20 pixels in
the y direction.
So that means we go down from zero to 20 in the vertical direction then down here.
This would be one hundred and ninety pixels over to the right in one hundred ninety pixels down.
So again origin is always at the top left and we have our X axes running from left to right and the
y axis goes from top down to the bottom so we're going to very rarely for our application anyways have
negative x or y values because negative x or y would mean that we are trying to place a point outside
of our available area of the SPG.
So like out over here and that would not display inside the SPG for something to display.
It must have an X and Y coordinate within the bounds of our SPG right.
Now we've got Turner pixels wide and tall.
So in other words anything that we want to show up must be placed within zero to 200 on the X axes and
zero to 200 on the y axis so that's a bit more about SPG elements and general now inside of an SPG element
we can place a variety of different other elements such as a circle and as you would guess this is going
to draw a circle out onto the screen.
There are several other shapes we can place as well so we can do a polygon which is essentially a shape
with an arbitrary number of sides.
We can do a circle which is what we just did.
We can draw and ellipse or a square or otherwise a rectangle.
We could also draw a path which is essentially a line that has some arbitrary and a direction to it.
So we can draw out a path kind of like curves and twists around as much as we please.
For our application as you probably guess we're going to end up drawing a circle so we're going to draw
a really big circle like so and we're going to place our timer text.
So like the countdown thing that text input all that kind of stuff is can be placed inside of the circle
and the circle itself.
There are a couple of different properties we need to understand.
These are pretty basic properties so r is the radius of the circle remember a radius is from the center
point out to a edge that is separate from the diameter which is the full distance from one edge to the
opposite edge.
So in this case we created a circle with a radius of 20 the C X and see y values are the center point
of the circle or where to place the circle on the SPG.
So in our case because we said see X and see y of 30 that meant that we could go back over to like this
diagram right here so we went over 30 units and then down 30 units and then we placed our circle.
The central point of it at that location so you can imagine 30 the 30 might be like right there or so
we can see that is plainly what happened inside of our drawing over here okay.
So that's some more about drawing a circle.
So now we want to we could easily play around with some of these are values and see X and see why.
So for example I can move my circle to the right by increasing these c x value that is going to increase
the x value where the central point of the x value for the circle.
So goods like 130 now expect to see this thing shift over by a hundred pixels.
Yep.
There we go.
I'm going to revert the C X to 30 and I'll try increasing c y to 130 as well.
So that should move our circle downwards by about a hundred pixels.
Yep definitely happen.
And then of course we can start to increase the r value so it can go up to say 120.
Now the radius of our circle is going to be significantly larger.
So now the circle is so large that actually flows off the SPG if something is outside the SPG it means
that we just plain can't see it.
So even though the circle is technically off the edge well we can't really see it because the SPG itself
is going to clip that OK.
So that is the SPG and the circle.
Now last thing I'm going to do I'm going to revert the circle back to an R of 20 a c x of 30 and a c
y 30 and then I'm going to copy paste the circle down twice then on the second one I'll change the C
X to 130 and on the third one I'll change the c y to 130 as well and so now I can see very easily three
circles on the screen.
So for us we're just going to show once circle.
But I just want you to know that we could show as many shapes inside of an SPG as we wish within reason
of course it's going to reduce this back down to just one circle like so.
All right.
So what we now understand some of the basics around drawing a shape inside of it as Fiji and some properties
around as Fiji is as well.
But now we need to understand how we can actually draw something like Well what we were going for before
this thing over here where we only see the outline of a circle.
In addition we want to make sure that we can kind of like have a line of sorts that goes around at the
same time.
We still need to understand a little bit more about how we're going to achieve that.
So a quick pause right here and I'll see you in just a minute.